---
layout: page
title: Mom is Free
date: 2020-05-30
tagline: Mom
# ref: Mom-is-Free
categories: CNA GOD
---

I have so much more than the following to say about my Mom: [Sandra Beattie](https://www.hkfuneralhome.com/en-memorium/sandra-d-beattie).

My Mom is now resting in peace, no more pain, no more frustration with being caged up in her own body and dependent on others for most everything. She spent most the past 10 years in a nursing home.

As a CNA, I told myself and my parents that I would not have them going to a nursing home, never! Well, at that time I never imagined a parent of MINE with such a disease so debilitating as MS can be. That was just a few people in the nursing home. Bizarre thing is that a lady a took special care of with MS followed me as a CNA from Grand Junction to Paonia, where my parents helped me take her to the 4th of July firworks. That fall after I went off to college is when Mom was diagnosed with MS, a couple weeks after Mom called me to say that this special lady had passed away due to a complication of MS. Damn crazy!

She was diagnosed with MS in 1983 and by about 1993, she was wheelchair-bound. For about 20 years, until his passing my Dad provided her top-notch, full-time "nursing" care. She had only what could be dreamed of for personal care, so landing one of the best nursing homes I have seen was real hard to swallow. And, oh, the guilt trips all of us kids had to experience! It was hard for Mom to imagine that one of us kids just could not have done it on our own for sure!

Her cats, were always a great comfort. I am hoping her last cat, Rosebud, is allowed to stay at the nursing home, such a loyal friend. She knows no other home.

I loved my Mom dearly, and I want to talk about who my Mom really was in the best years of her adult life, before she was afflicted with this cruel disease. She was a woman of faith, and even though it was difficult and at times her faith maybe seemed dimmer, she never lost it. She did have a dear friend, Marsha, those last years of her life visiting her and helping her maintain strength in her faith.

Mom is known by at least 2 of her younger siblings as the only Mom, they knew. Because of her parents divorce and until she met Dad, she said she did not want marriage and kids. When she met Dad in her teens, she knew she "had been had." 

I remember when Mom got her diamond ring on her tenth wedding anniversary. She explained that she told Dad she did not want a diamond ring until she had been married 10 years. She wanted to make sure her marriage would be a lasting one. She wanted to "earn" her diamond. She most always had that twinkle in her for Dad.

Dad called her his "Little Red Riding Hood," especially when wearing her hooded red sweatshirt, and he often called her his "Annie Oakley" because of her hunting skills, using her bolt action .30 - 06. I believe that is right. Dad always said it like this, "30 ot 6." I never could get into shooting an animal, just one was enough for me. And, it would be hard to shoot one to put it out of its misery, but if I had to I would. Anyway, her gun had the bolt on the side that she would pop the shells/casings in and out of. It was kind of fun to watch her operate it, and Darrel and I went on many wintery hunting excursions for deer, elk, and moose with Mom and Dad in our jeeps, esp the cloth-top brown and aqua CJ5s.

I am pretty sure, I was living in a bubble of a more perfect world those first 8 or 9 years of my life while living out at the mines. Even after we moved to Jeffrey City for the next 4 or 5 years, we were still "sheltered." However, it was then along with having had
the youngest brother of the first eight kids of Mom's family, my parents decided the Bible and God would be a necessary addition to the family guidance. Though we had Mom's siblings with us several times up to that point, but this one being with us those last couple of times remains with me pretty distinctly as not being very welcome by myself and with which Dad finally told him he had to go and be on his way. He was definitely not being a good influence on my middle two brothers (Darrel and Sam), and they totally worshiped him. Mom and Dad would spend ours together sitting next to each other on the couch researching the Bible and history books supporting the existence of the Bible and Bible times. Mom was greatly resistant to the "green" bible and held tightly to her King James, but eventually she was happily using and cross-referencing with both. Mom and also rather rebelled against the total materialism of Christmas and that was eliminated from our home by my fifth-grade year. I am very thankful for that and never missed worrying about what was under the tree, not one bit, but that was not the case, for sure, for my brother just younger than me.

We studied the Bible with a very nice Jehovah's Witness couple, who drove 60 miles one-way every time to do so. We also got to the point we would go to Lander once a month or so for Sunday meeting and/or ministry meetings, and we eventually held Bible meetings in our trailer house (for a the few interested in Jeffrey City) with my dresser as the podium for the Sunday service. 

Mom had quite the green thumb, too, and she kept the home indoor air healthy with her many house plants. Outdoors, a favorite thing was growing tulips and old-fashioned yellow rosees. It seemed something happened in moving to Paonia, CO, though, she was not as wild about growing things on the property there. She told me she did not like strawberries when she was older, and it seems like maybe she said something like that in Paonia. I remember her saying Washington strawberries that her Grandma had were better (True. I remember picking some and eating them.) This was despite the fact that we had strawberries, and she made strawberry jam, both freezer and regular. However, our plants originally came from Grandma Crabtree, so maybe that had something to do with it, along with being thrust more into the realm of Dad's family where she did not feel entirely accepted (which definitely was not unfounded). Leaving Wyoming was definitely the end of that more perfect world for sure!

Mom was focused on being the best Mom that she did not have, and she always wanted to be a baby or pediatric nurse. She was so proud of getting her GED in Jeffrey City right before my youngest brother, Bert, was born and being told she was "college material" (which DID mean something because not every high-school graduate went to college even when I was of college-age). When she was diagnosed with MS, she felt so robbed of her life, which included this college/career aspiration. I remember her even thinking Grand Junction was almost close enough for her to go to college there when we moved to Paonia. Mom was 35 years old when I graduated and 44 years old when her youngest, Bert, graduated, so there was definitely room in her life for more beyond kids. I many times told her how she truly did the best and most important things in life, that college and career is really not anything that big to be missed. She could not figure out why I got to the point where I would turn down requests to fill nursing shifts beyond my own because I needed mental rejuvenation time for myself. She had no clue how gruelling nursing jobs can be! She just figured people needed me, so why would I not help them anytime they needed help!

Engulfed and taking great pride in her abilities with babies and children, I remember her singing lullabies in the green rocking chair in our living room to both Sam and Bert. I wanted to be just like her in terms of being fully supportive of her husband and focused on caring for kids. However, I did not at all like a thermometer placed between my butt cheeks, Vicks rubbed into my chest with a cloth diaper around my neck, Neosynephrine drops up my nostrils or in our ears, Sudafed for a cough, or de-wormer medicine. She definitely played many roles as Mom, this nurse or doctor role being her favorite, I think!  Even the family cat got such treatments as needed, and we all seemed to perk up for one reason or another. Due to this bit of childhood trauma, though, I never used a rectal thermometer on my girls, nor did I use many mainstream medicines. 

I must give her top credit for knowing when her kids were sick just by looking at them, especially as she got older and with each successive child. She was good at putting her ear to the chest and back listening to deep breaths for crackling (which she called rattling) or wheezing. She ran humidifiers and vaporizors as needed to loosen phlegm and we always had a hot water bottle around for those pesky ear aches and ear infections which often went away with just that treatment alone. Honestly, I think she may have gone a little overboard with doctoring of my youngest brother, though. Mom's early years of MS diagnosis seemed to trigger her personal need to overdo and still be "Mom" anyway she could. Likely due to lont-time overuse of antibiotics, he ended up with colitis(which was first thought to have been appendicitis, so he ended up with an appendectomy because the docs did not ask the right questions regarding antibiotic history).

Not only did Mom make all our meals from scratch, she also made all my school clothes until I got in the 5th grade when she came to the conclusion that K-mart had become the easier AND less expensive way to go (which had not always been the case in history). Summer and winter clothes always seemed to be made (or bought) in sets of three different outfits. We generally got 1 pair of dress shoes, a pair of tennis shoes, and a good pair of boots, and maybe a pair of those cheap flip-flops, which we called thongs back then. Not too many kids had all homemade bread let alone, their clothes, too. As I got older, Mom liked to buy boys Levis or boys Wranglers jeans because they cost less and we all usually had boys Levi or Wrangler jackets. Mom liked to buy (or make) Easter dresses for me, too, and I remember most of them I am sure because I have always loved those spring colors, pastels! Mom made my 8th grade graduation (in Paonia, CO at that time)long dark blue lace-trimmed poke-a-dot dress, too, which I also proudly wore to "meetings" and an assembly in Denver. She made me a knee-length version of that dress in red poke-a-dot material with a strawberries trim which I also proudly wore too meetings and school once-in-awhile.

Mom said she got all her homemaking and gardening skills from her Grandma Wood, who in addition to caring for her farm family, was also a 4-H leader. Lucky for me, Mom enjoyed passing most of that on. However, I had to learn the hard way just how unfortunately hard small family farming can be, enjoyable but next to impossible to make a living at it. She wanted nothing to do with "being tied to milk cows" and said she hated sheep, but I think she maybe changed her mind what little she was able to see, because of her immobility, of my colorful primitive breed sheep and all I could create from their wool. She kind of blamed a bit of her MS symptoms on bucking bales as a young girl and also landing on a rock on her tailbone in the creek they used to play in where she spend much of her childhood in Washington. Mom loved being "spoiled" by Dad, which truly was not spoiling by most women's standards, but not having to do those physically harder chores like bucking bales and milking cows made her FEEL spoiled.

After having to remember how I was working on this project, I must say thanks to Lauren for helping me getting me back on track here. My girls and I did not end up spending as much time as Lauren with Mom in her years of MS since I was off to college when that hit. After I got married, the closest we lived to Mom and Dad was a good 45 minute drive. That was only for a short time when the girls were tiny and I was also busy working as a nurse in Home-Care, and their Dad was in college. Mom was still fussing over my youngest brother, too, at that time. 

Mom was a true rock, always there for us kids, of utmost importance to her outside Dad and God. And, I always tried to be like her, of course. I feel like I missed the boat with my not playing games with my kids anywhere near as much. Mom was always in for a game of Monopoly, Clue, Yahtzee, Sorry, Uno, or some other card game and the list goes on. Somehow life gets too busy, especially nowadays, but I sure remember playing a lot of games with Mom. We even played Badmitton with some rackets I made with pantyhose and hangers, and we later got real rackets. She was pretty darn good at hitting a birdie around. 

Mom was the best listener, a trait of a good psycologist. I know I was able to deal with so much more nonsense of junior high and high school because I had a Mom at home to hear my stories of nonsensical behavior and mistreatment of junior high and high school kids. Most of the time I could figure out answers to my own issues just by unloading my stories on Mom with just a few comments here and ther on her part.Whenever she had something to say about my situations, it was very apparent she had similar experiences in her school days. I remember getting a note passed to me that said, "Go ____ blank yourself!" It was kind of funny because I really did not knew what it meant, but I figured it was meant to be hurtful. I showed it to Mom and asked her what it meant. She said she was not sure but that I should give it to the teacher who was conducting the class the note was passed in. Well, that got the whole class in trouble, a major growly chewing-out by a generally gentle-giant-of-a-teacher-turned-angry-hulk who showed this new side of being able to instill great fear in his subjects! There was no more note passing in that class ever that I can remember! 

Ha! Mom was the world's greatest advocate for proper handwashing and cleansing of anything. We learned at home that handwashing, social distancing, covering our coughs and sneezes, etc are the first line of defense against passing germs around. Again, this was great grandma Wood who instilled this in her. It rather boggles my mind what I see going on with this COVID epidemic because the things that prevent the spread of this disease are no different than any other, but now people are finally having to go back to ways that should have never been lost. I am boggled by how people are focused primarily upon PPE (not to mention improper use) instead of social distancing and sanitation (handwashing and keeping the hands away from the face and from touching anything unnecessarily).

Now another of her healthful ways was her thing about us being outside if at all possible. In Wyoming for sure, we were outside weather permitting, which was anything above freezing and less than wind that blew dirt in your eyes. If someone was "running in and out of the house" or was lying around the house any length of time, you heard, "You get outside!" She did not appreciate dirt and crap tracked into the house for one thing. She would vaccuum more than once a day if people were tracking stuff in, but she would try to catch that before it happened. The other thing was that she comes from preious eras that knew the importance of outdoor activity for childhood development and health. Yes, I grew up in the day when kids pretty much owned the outdoors and played outside from sun up to sunset! What has happened in this world seemed to happen pretty fast, this transition from kids living for making their own outdoor fun to needing entertainment via screens of all kinds.

Mom was quite funny when someone was lying or "telling a story", and she was pretty good at detecting that. I really did not always like her saying this because she was not always right. However, as an adult, being a parent or manager or just listening to some people, there are t imes that, "I was not born yesterday!" just truly fits as a response to someone's BS! So, yes, I occasionally cannot refrain from using that expression, and I know when I am saying it just where it came from. Another expression my Mom used to use on us kids, me for sure anyway, "Get down off your high horse!" Boy, did I dislike that one! But, I have to say that I have come to feel and understand those shoes on a few occasions.

Here is one I also occasionally resorted to saying: "I am NOT your slave!" Mom would get frustrated with us having to pick up or clean up after those in the household. And, again, I did not care for this and tried not to use that phrase often, but at an occasional frustrating moment, it would come out of my mouth. Of course, I would think of Mom and my dislike for those words even as I was saying them.
There are times that I really have related to that in Mom, though.

I see my Mom in both of my daughters. Audrey has simiar hair in that it was dark brown at birth with new hair coming in blond and turning light brown. She also has those wispy curls around the temples. I think she gets the worry-wart syndrome from my side of the family through Mom, as well. Sarah, I have noticed, has some of the same hand expressions, and a more reserved demeanor like Mom's. Mom would pick at her eyebrows when she was nervous, just pull them all out. When I see those kinds of rather almost along the lines of obsessive-compulsive behaviors in my girls, not to mention myself, I think of Mom and Grandpa Wood and I believe they come from that lineage mostly. Routine and things set in and done in certain order in a certain way was definitely something displayed by Grandpa Wood in his last years, and having disruption in those things really left him an unhappy camper. Now, those OCD-like behaviors are also what I think sometimes does get people through rough patches over which they have little or no control, and Mom was tough, was able to endure a lot difficuly, even if not as gracefully as she or we would have liked. And, I think that trait exists in myself and the girls, too. These things are common to many people and animals, too, but I definitely saw more of this in Mom and her side of the family than in Dad and his side.

So long for now... 


