---
layout: post
title: Psalms 32
category: GOD
---

Brother Melanfont presented the first talk about maintaining joy using Psalms-32. Jehovah's Witnesses are a happy and joyful people. Why? What is it that enables us to remain joyful and happy in the midst of this morally corrupt and God dishonoring world? It's because our happiness and joy are founded on our relationship with Jehovah God. In fact, Jehovah God is the source of our joy. Psalms 32, written by David, is the theme text of our Circuit Assembly program. It shows that our joy is directly connected to Jehovah. Psalm 32:11 reads, "Rejoice in Jehovah." No one else has mentioned. We focus our attention on Jehovah God, and then it says, "And be joyful you righteous ones. Shout joyfully all you who are upright in heart." This song that David wrote focuses on three loving provisions that Jehovah made and that made David rejoice. The provisions are forgiveness, protection, and instruction. 

Let's start with forgiveness. In Psalm 32:1-5, David says, "Happy is the one whose transgression is pardoned whose sin is covered. Happy is the man whom Jehovah does not charge with guilt in whose Spirit there is no deceit." Then David goes on to reveal how he felt before he confessed his sins to Jehovah in verses 3-5 state, "When I kept silent my bones wasted away because of my groaning all day long. For day and night, your hand was heavy upon me." Yes, David's conscience was bothering him because he knew that he had violated God's righteous laws. And, he goes on and he says, "My strength evaporated like water in the dry summer heat. Finally, I confessed my sins to you. I did not cover my error. I said: I will confess my transgressions to Jehovah and you pardoned the error of my sins." It was Jehovah's forgiveness that made David happy and Jehovah could see into David's heart. He knew for certainty that David was truly repentant, and that's very comforting because Jehovah can look into our heart and see that we are genuine in our repentance for wrongdoing. 

At times we may feel as David did because of our imperfections and errors, and that can be very discouraging. We want to obey him. We are his dedicated servants and knows we're made of dust. Jehovah God is patient with us because he really does care for us, so we don't want to quit, never give up and are observing our great god Jehovah receiving Jehovah's forgiveness through faith in Christ Ransom sacrifice is it cause of great joy for us. Jesus died for us that means that he took our place in death he took your place he took my place in depth and That allows me then to have a good relationship with Jehovah because my sins have been paid for. Jesus sacrifice is what makes our relationship with Jehovah God possible So daily meditating thinking about what Jesus did that how Jehovah provided that sacrifice should touch her heart and it deepens our joy in serving in knowing our God. The second provision that David mentioned his protection Psalm 32 verses 6 and 7 this is how we reads David said this is why every loyal one will pray to your will David certainly was a loyal one while you may yet be found Then even the flood waters will not reach him and then David says you Jehovah were hiding place for me you will safeguard me from distress you will surround me with joyful shouts of Deliverance David rejoiced greatly because Jehovah consistently protected him from his enemies and his enemies could be liking to flood waters surrounding him David was loyal to Jehovah and he knew that Jehovah God was on his side we're living at a remarkable time where we still can't approach Jehovah in prayer and beg for his Tender Mercies and it's remarkable the protection that we feel as Jehovah's people today when you think about it we don't engage in physical combat to protect ourselves our protection our defense against all enemies is our trust in Jehovah God and the Assurance we have from him that he will help with whatever trials may come our way we don't expect miraculous intervention but of this weekend be sure Jehovah will help us to remain faithful regardless of the obstacles that we may face and that is faithful even unto death nothing Satan and his agents do can prevent Jehovah from loving us and protecting us we pray for Jehovah's protection and Isaiah 30-15 we find this most interesting comment Isaiah 30-15 it says your strength will be in keeping calm and showing trust what Good Counsel for all of us calmness by not exciting ourselves over human skiing and Trust by having absolute faith in Jehovah God and his promises Street Psalm 32 verses 8 and 9 every State's Jehovah speaking today but I will give you insight and instruct you in the way you should go I will give you advice with my eye on you but then Jehovah gives a warning that many people don't hate and the warning at first nine tells us do not become like a horse or a mule without understanding who spiritedness must be controlled with a bridle or a halter before it will come near to you know we don't want to drift away from Jehovah be stubborn and resist Jehovah's way we want to willingly submit to all that Jehovah requires of us Jehovah God gave David instruction and inside because of his word David had the thinking ability he could see beyond the surface appearance of a situation so when faced with temptation in the future David would be able to anticipate the outcome of his actions and then he could see what the effect would possibly be and act wisely by applying scriptural counsel Jehovah's instruction is far superior to anything the world has to offer and if we follow it we can overcome any trial or problem his instructions help us to discern goals that are truly beneficial that can protect us from wasting our life on pursuing worthless pursuit or things in this world what if we have lost our joy Jehovah's ready to help us to regain it he's not expecting Perfection he knows that we are dust but he knows that we love him and so he looks to us he provides his Spirit as he looks upon us and blesses us as we Endeavor to serve him Faithfully these qualities are truly dear to Jehovah our God forgiveness protection and instruction all found in Psalm 32 and note how David concludes psalm 32:10 David wrote many are the Pains of the wicked but the one trusting in Jehovah is surrounded by his loyal love so we have three wonderful Provisions from Jehovah God in Psalm 32 forgiveness protection and instruction

Review Question: What are 3 provision from Jehovah that bring us joy? Psalms 32: Jehovah's forgiveness, protection, and instruction.