---
layout: post
title: Selfless
category: GOD
---

I am using that word, "selfless," to describe the focus on others that is necessary in life in general. I think it comes to some more easily than others, whether in-born or learned or both, and it is more likely to come and develop with age.

When it comes to any relationships, primary focus on others is required. That is what relationships are about. This includes with God and his congregation. We should not primarily attend for what we can get, but on what we can give. Today's public speaker spoke of this, especially in his closing prayer.

We should attend congregation meetings to contribute and upbuild others foremost (show love). See Hebrews 10:25. With no self-interest or self-consciousness being the goal, we will be better at recognizing needs if others and give even better and more specifically to their needs. See 2Peter 5:9 and James 1:2. Whatever we get in return in focusing on others, will then come and be bonus. And, we certainly will not be disappointed if we are not expecting to get anything, other than the joy of giving, to begin with.

It is so easy to become overly concerned, absorbed,  or consumed by so many aspects of daily life (rabbit holes). That is what Satan wants; he wants to divert us from our loving relationships and the rewards of maintaining them. He does not want us to be happy.

What everything always boils down to is love (including all the loving traits of that go along with it. See Galations 5:22,23). God is Love. See 1John 4:8. As such, he is the greatest Giver. Just knowing that in itself is a great guide in life as to how we need to be and then how things will go best for us now and in the future.