
["Walk Humbly and Modestly With Your God"](https://www.jw.org/en/library/magazines/watchtower-study-august-2020/Walk-Humbly-and-Modestly-With-Your-God/) This is a rather favorite topic. It always hits home in some way.

The biggest point I want to remember to practice is NOT to fall into answering this type of question, "What would you do ____" in regard to a certain situation. Always find Bible references to help people make their own decision. I know I have fallen into that one on occasions, usually when I am not thinking, in a hurry, just in a careless mode for some reason. I think I tend to try to throw out a lot of "if this" or "if thats," ie not really answer, just throw out aspects of the scenario or person that could affect whatever the answer even if I do kind of fall into answering such a question. And, if they ask what "I" would do, I do emphasize that I a just speaking for me.

However, best would be to AUTOMATICALLY NOT answer immediately AND research and direct a person to the Bible. I know I do often look things up for people, so they have information. This comes from my background growing up and also my nursing/psychology background. Giving advice is never advisable because we can never have enough information because we are not that person, nor do we know the exact information even if they try to give it all. 

Sometimes, though, I do say I would do this or that if I have a definite opinion for MYSELF being in whatever situation, especially if I have had similar experiences (or so it seems). It is just best to refrain from anything like that. I do think and hope I will ALWAYS leave things us to the person. I definitely need to keep in my head to not answer immediately until I have the scriptures that would help on the top of my head (which I have done at times and probably used to be better at, just got out of the practice). I must ALWAYS do it this way!

When I was in college my psyche instructor soon had me doing research instead of interacting with patients because she said I already had that down. I probably should have just kept interacting with them because you can never get too good at it. She did ask me how I was already at that point, though. I could not think of a great answer at the time (which is so typical of me...I have to contemplate a long time to figure me out.), so I said I did not know. However, once I thought long enough, I decided it was because of my Bible studying background, always being an "outsider" for whatever reason (family relocating for Dad's jobs so much in my teen years and even after that as an adult, being of JW background, and having a difficult younger sibling or maybe two). 

Even with that, though, I still mess up a lot in interactions. I have been better at catching myself lately, because I have slipped back in those abilities over my decades of adult life. Situations can wear on whatever good traits a person might have had a bit of. The word, "no" is one that pops into my head. It is almost a bad word, which have slipped into using incorrectly. It is more of a defense mode word sometimes, just saying, "whoah, you have not got it or can't have it (whatever that is)." I should just take out that word and go on and say the rest. "No," puts up a wall that I do not mean to do. It is more of some sort of defense instead of just letting people have their thought or what they have to say, and just letting it be. Then, somehow dealing with whatever the thing it is in a way that helps the person feel they are in some control. People like to come to their own conclusions without someone else giving them the information or whatever. It is about being respectful (and humble)

Who know if that makes any sense to others, but hopefully it helps me keep those thoughts in my head so they go into practice and stay there all the time.

My husband is pretty smart, perceptive about things, too. He always tells people that "no" just means "not right now." This is true. It just cuts things short right now! I do not tend to push other people's telling me, "no," though (other than in thinking about job searches... I definitely see that. One often has to apply for the same job more than once or twice.). I am keeping what he says in mind, though, so I can practice it if need be. Sometimes one has to stand up for one's self.