---
layout: post
title: The Shift in Understanding
category: GOD
---

**The bottom line of this blurb:** The Jehovah's Witnesses DO teach the Bible Truth that *it is Jesus, with Jehovah's backing and appointment,* who will ultimately be doing the final separation of the sheep and the goats. All mankind needs to know about this work and [the current efforts of Jehovah's earthly Organization in that regard](https://wol.jw.org/en/wol/d/r1/lp-e/1997489) and [get and stay prepared](https://www.jw.org/en/library/bible/study-bible/books/matthew/25/#v40025013) for what is ahead. 

I was told that JWs in the '70s believed that JWs were doing that separating work in these last days. That is how JWs are. They will admit misunderstanding and change as information becomes clear. That kind of somewhat minor thing could be a major thing in some folks mind, like that of my parents. My parents would not say much other than we needed to talk to Jehovah and examine the scriptures for ourselves. Becoming a Jehovah's Witness cannot be taken lightly. *NEW NOTE*: [Check this out!](https://wol.jw.org/en/wol/d/r1/lp-e/1101993014?q=separate+sheep+from+goats&p=par) This shift in belief is a shift more closely back to what the roots of the Organization thought the Scriptures meant, what it really looks like it means at face-value in terms of Jesus doing the final separating work--not JWs now. It tells how and why the shift to the wrong understanding happened and how it was re-understood again that it needed to shift back to "Jesus" being the one who separates. Does that ever make so much more sense to me as to how the misunderstanding happened!

All I can say is that I am positive that the Scriptures are [more clear than ever](https://www.jw.org/en/library/bible/study-bible/books/daniel/12/#v27012004) before with the JWs, as prophecied in the Bible. The Organization is more united and running more smoothly than ever before. My exposure in any one congregation has been no more than about 2 years, and I have  popped in on at least 7 different congregations in 6 different states, and I have been exposed to JWs from very many different congregations worldwide and all the way up to the Governing Body now because of the [nature of operations of the Organization](https://wol.jw.org/en/wol/d/r1/lp-e/1101993018!) and now their website. My daughter was baptized in Australia, and attended congregations there and in New Zealand before coming back to the US.

I have been racking my brain, trying to decide whether I remember if I knew of that belief or if I am imagining that I do by the power of suggestion. I think I might have known of it because this effort to remember this belief puts me back visually to a sunshiny day in probably 1979, going in or out of our trailer house with its green indoor-outdoor carpet on the porch/deck in Paonia, CO, probably after a meeting at the Hall on a Sunday afternoon. I seems I was maybe gravelling or mulling around, in a perplexed fashion, the idea, that the Jehovah's Witnesses are doing the separating of the sheep and the goats now.

Whatever the case that idea did not take hold in my mind, and it definitely did not take hold in my parents' minds, and I assume they knew what the JWs believed. They took seriously [examining the scriptures](https://www.jw.org/en/library/bible/study-bible/books/acts/17/#v44017011) on their own, which the Bible admonishes us to do, along with, also, [not relying on our own understanding, putting our trust in Jehovah](https://www.jw.org/en/library/bible/study-bible/books/proverbs/3/#v20003005). They pretty much always made a point of letting anybody know that Jehovah and Jesus were the only ones who could see into our hearts and had the right to judge us our heart conditions. I definitely paid attention to my parents beliefs and reactions to JWs, as I was not the rebellious sort of kid, especially respecting their wisdom, even when I did not totally understand it.

There were just too many people we knew, some in both sides of my family, that definitely examined the scriptures daily, so far more than I or anybody I know ever has. The ultimate example is my Mom's Dad who did this seriously (no exageration) every single day (falling asleep in his Bibles more than once a day) of his life in his last years. I saw this because I was part of taking care of him, and along with that came his relating his understanding of those scriptures to anybody and everybody he ran into. He was not a JW (no declared religion, but was raised a staunch Catholic, rejected that at a young age, ran away from home, always a very strong-willed, dedicated and very sincere person), who just had it in his head that JWs were bad (so it seemed). Grandpa was similar when he was working in his 50's and 60's. I know this because I lived with him 1 entire summer in order to work. There was not a day go by that summer he did not have his nose in the Bible at some point, even if only a few minutes. He wore out many Bibles, all kinds of translations, but I do not think he would ever touch a NWT or JW study aids. God was his highest priority in life, and a Bible was the possession you could count on him having. He would always say he wanted to be a Hobo or a Tramp, and he was pretty close to being that. He had no attachment to earthly things, owned very little. He had a smile, sparkle and chuckle of joy that cannot be forgotten, along with his big bushy eyebrows. He loved kind of picking/throwing us kids up in the air above his head, spewing that love and happiness up at us.

Anyway, here is [Matthew 25: 31-34](https://www.jw.org/en/library/bible/study-bible/books/matthew/25/#v40025031-v40025034): “When the Son of man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit down on his glorious throne. All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate people one from another, just as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will put the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on his left. Then the King will say to those on his right: ‘Come, you who have been blessed by my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the founding of the world." It seems plain as day. I am pretty sure it was clear back when I marked in my Bible, too." Jesus with Jehovah's authority has been placed in that position of final judgement of those who love God vs those who do not." I know somewhere in my recent meetings or studies, it was mentioned that Jehovah and Jesus who the only ones to be making this decision, which had a noticeably greater positive feeling in me (struck me for some reason, but not because I ever thought different-just, "Yes, that is it exactly!". And, I even firmly, with unusually extra emphasis, said this same thing even more recently I thought they may have been insinuating otherwise, and I think I came across wrong and wondered about my own rather ferocious adamance having unconscious roots.... 

**Jehovah's Witnesses Organization, the earthly part of God's reigning Kingdom (Government),** with His spirit and purpose-driven direction, is in partnership with it's reigning King, Jesus Christ and His heavenly and heaven-bound governmental assistants, ALL play a role in finding and drawing as many of His sheep as possible from amongst this wicked world right now. Final separation, as shown by Matthew, is done later by Jesus. They will be strengthened and protected through their faith and with His direction and add to His ever-stronger forward movement through the increasing trials and tribulations brought by Satan and his demons.

Because the time for Satan and his demons is disappearing lickety-split-like, the world is seeing Satan's increasing pressure to turn people away from Jehovah, the results being horrible global and unprecedented catastrophes and pestilences, people being weighed down more and more, getting sicker and sicker mentally and physically, struggling so hard to cope with so many types of hardships to the extent never-before seen in human history. 

People need to stand behind Jehovah and Jesus and their true Government and take refuge in it as we must brace for the battle(s) ahead. Jehovah and Jesus' Everlasting Government is in the process of re-establishment to the days of Adam and Eve's creation. People need recognize the evidence identifying the Amazing Creator of All, including man, and that He Alone is the ultimate, perfectly, forever-capable, locical Authority to perfectly lead and unify all His creations in the heavens and on earth in true paradise-fashion for the benefit of ALL his creations forever and ever.  People must recognize and accept what God has allowed, for our benefit, to be proven by history, that all man's governments have failed and are and always will be doomed for failure. This is ndeniable proof of the always and forever incapable human leadership and attempts toward everlasting peace and security for anyone or anything of which all has always belonged to God as the Creator of EVERYTHING in Existence. So, how could one logically expect any different?

As the Creator, Jehovah will always know what is best His Creations. People must commit and submit, as the free-willed beings He lovingly created in His image, to solely worship and follow His loving and non-burdensome leadership, showing the love, honor, and respect he deserves as our Loving, All-and-Forever-Wise Creator, just as any loving father would want and feel great joy in his heart for such rewards of his loving efforts. We need be a "Witness" in any way we can now of Jehovah and Jesus efforts. It will soon be the Only Existing Government and will be to Everlasting, with the same Ultimate Authority as when the first man and woman were created upon paradise Earth by God (WITH Jesus back then just as now).

Just think! All in the heavens and on earth will be able to look back on this precedent being set as to what happens when God's creations try to rule themselves!

[How to Identify the True Religion](https://wol.jw.org/en/wol/d/r1/lp-e/1101968014) 

[Reject False Religion?](https://www.jw.org/en/library/books/gods-friend/reject-false-religion/)

[Science and Religion in Conflict?](https://www.jw.org/en/library/magazines/g20020608/Science-and-Religion-The-Conflict/)This is a nice brief article! I pretty much came to the same conclusion as this article (since I lived with a science teacher who seemed to go further and further from God because of his belief in science RATHER than any religion), ie there are no real points for religion and science to argue (which so much more can be elaborated upon than even what this article does).

I, also, recall in a college Honors philosophy course discussions identifying pretty much any religion around the world having roots or having been affected by Babylonish era polytheism and mythology (however you want to put it), basically making out ALL religions being Babylonish rubbish. Of course, I knew others in this class did not really know anything about Jehovah's Witnesses, that they do not fit in that category, but the gist of these conclusions have remained in my mind and also led to my decision not to take any more Honors courses, for which not everyone was even "eligible" to take. These discussions also contributed to my desire return to study of [Babylon book](http://www.strictlygenteel.co.uk/index.html), which I do not believe I ever studied in its' entireity, not to mention it is one that is meaty to digest. So, for people desiring meaty Bible study, here you go. Just keep in mind that there may be minor shifts in Jehovah's Witnesses understanding of the Scriptures, maybe even like the one mentioned in this blurb. Also, [the articles in this May 2020 magazine](https://www.jw.org/en/library/magazines/watchtower-study-may-2020/) have some of the information that was in that book, probably better, more concise and accurate because of it's recency

**Again:** The Jehovah's Witnesses DO teach the Bible Truth that *it is Jesus, with Jehovah's backing and appointment, who will be ultimatelhy be doing the final separation of the sheep and the goats*.

Note: I will be plugging in links to scriptures above over time (when I get a chance). I am pooped as it takes me a while to gather my thoughts and put them down. Take note, that I often still have my thoghts scrambled when I think I have got them straight for understanding. All I can say is that, I am very imperfect in my editing even when I try. I would say it is due in part because I want to put something important out there and am afraid I will not get it done, get side-tracked, as often happens. Hopefully, you get the gist, check back later, and/or just go to [JW.ORG](https://www.jw.org/) and do your own research. Explore the overwhelming and obvious evidence of the divine direction and intervention in the [wisdom and orderliness of God's unified world-wide Organization](https://wol.jw.org/en/wol/d/r1/lp-e/1101993018!)