---
layout: post
title: God Being the Main Focus in Life
category: GOD
---

This is the way our life should be. God should be readily available in our minds and hearts. I cannot always say that He was close enough in mine. He was there, but I did not rely on Him as much as I should have. I did not think of Him everyday, just a lot of days, especially if I had no other person I felt I could lean on, like when I had no control over my situation. I prayed, then, heartfelt prayers for sure and felt guilty because I felt I had not given God enough attention and credit otherwise. I do not think I retained a lot of abiity to be thankful and look forward (because of my background with God and the Bible), but I definitely got weighed down with the struggles of this world often times and complained too much often times. I did not always follow my mind and heart totally as far as what I thought I should do. God was in my mind and heart, but I did question and make some wrong decisions. I can forgive myself for that because I know God forgives, even the things where I flat out let the Devil in and did something my conscious said was wrong and have to beg for forgiveness, another time I cannot forget to pray. I do know that I have mostly been the sort to do my best, and I do believe that most of the time I have done the my imperfect self could do. However, I have found that even if  I really am trying to do the right thing, I still do not get it done, probably a lot of times. Ugh!

Anyway, God did look over me all the time. I know that or I would have gotten myself in a lot more bad situations than I did in life. I have often thanked him for that. College at a big university was definitely full of a lot of that! Honestly, though I feel I need forgiveness for many decisions or neglects in life, I do feel God has been leading me all along, or pulling me out of my messes, maybe? Whatever, he has always been there, somewhere in the back of my mind and heart, instead of the front for whatever reasons at the time, my lack of endurance and/or self-control in general. Though a one can become weak, I do not think a person can forget. Once you know God and his purposes in your mind and heart through the Bible and observing his creations and this world, how can one deny what is? 

For those who actually know about God and his purposes and creations through the Bible combined with life experiences on this earth and with the current world, how can they truthfully deny what they know about what really is and/or they can turn their back on it? It is hard to figure how one could not, would not love God.  Honestly, I never liked the feeling that anyone thought I or my parents were turning backs on God by not attending mmeetings. I am sure there are many others like myself and my parents who did not forget God, and even continued talking to others about him. Yes, I definitely became weak and make decisions or do things for which I am not proud in my weakness and low activity, but I did not forget or turn my back.

The biggest thing I regret is not doing a better job of passing what I know to my daughters. I did some and tried to make sure they knew he was there, but I let their very young years go by without helping them know more of what I know at that crucial time in life. I actually tried to be too neutral about Bible studying, too much emphasis on making sure that they will have to make their own decisions about God without giving them all I know first. We did Bible studies NOT near enough when they were little, but I knew my obligation to teach them of God, so I did not totally neglect, but I would surely give myself an 'F' rating. When there were teenageers, I did make sure there was literature, including the Youth book and took all the literature that came to the door, but I had long since quit doing our little Bible studies (to my recollection). One of the girls colored in the big red Paradise book that I had around since they were smallI, but it was still there. I am sure they could also sense myapprehensiveness when studying with them, like a cloud hanging over me, because of me feeling like I had to sneak studies in, due to my husband's not being wild about it (even though I invited him in with us) and even saying that we must "be conspiring against him." I place no blame, I was just not as strong and definitely not enthusiastic enough in my assistance or deliverance of God's message to the girls.

Anyway, this is why I MUST now (more than ever) put FIRST my learning about God and spreading what I know to others! It is who I am and have always been most at-heart even though I have not been a great Witness to him for the most part over these many years. I never forgot and I did speak of him, even if in a low voice and not near often enough.