---
layout: post
title: Gathering and Maintaining God's Flock
category: GOD
---

Talk about shepherding the great crowd brings back all I learned in raising primitive breed sheep, how doing this showed me why sheep represent God's flock. Without this experience, ie knowing what is of the modern breeds and what people think of them, the likeness of God's people to sheep would just not be quite as pleasing.

Primitive breed sheep look you eye-to-eye withso much love and interest. They are very intelligent creatures, not dopey followers. They do not lend themselves as easily to being shoved around, whether by human or by sheep-dogs, as the modern breeds. There are many personalities which seem to also go with their many colors. For some reason, the brown ones seem a bit more independent. Colored ones, in general, tend to be smarter than the white (which actually just have a "do-not-show-my-color" gene). The ewes birth their, often multiple, babies most often independently and with ease, and this also lends to their better bonding and better survival than modern breed sheep. The only time I had an issue with a Mama not claiming a baby was with a white ewe who seemed to think the black and first baby of her two was not hers, so that was the only time I struggled with getting a Mamma to feed a baby in the 13+ years I raised these animals. Smart (which is most) rams are respectful of the ewes, living at peace with them and not mounting them other than during the approximate 3 months the ewes are biologically ready to breed in the fall. At that time is the only time I struggled with rams (try to keep separated due to fighting), if I kept more than one. And, the only time I had to keep rams totally away from ewes was for a couple weeks or so after birth. 

Being observant and curious, they may go off to check out some better looking grazing, something moving in the grass or another sheep off from the rest. One of my brown ewes, a leader of the bunch, adamately would not come in with the rest of the flock for some reason, so I had to go see what was going on. We had a lamb with his leg wrenched between two boards of an old feeder bunk that we had not gotten rid of yet. Poor fellow tolerated 2-3 wks of us soaking and bandaging to heal his wound. One must be aware o lead rams, with their horns, and they must be assured you mean no harm in picking up one of the lambs of the flock. If an animal managed to get out of a fence, they, also, likely would find their way back in the same spot.

Anyway, what I came to realize is that sheep are smarter and stronger than given credit nowadays. Modern sheep have been bred for certain characteristics, like being white, and as such man has bred them to be less smart and less self-sufficient. Now while "real" sheep are smarter and stronger, they still require high quality nutrition and slow introduction to new pastures. They, also, being gentle and loving in spirit. They like to follow and be with you, especially if you have something good, even just for attention. I had some angora goats, but I got rid of them because they were mean to the sheep. Our sheep appreciated our love and became more like family than just farm animals. Our Shetland/Icelandic sheep liked to hang close to our Scottish Highland cattle (also smart, self-sufficent primitive breed) for protection, also. 

I was bombarded by constant "ah-hah!" moments as to why sheep were representative of God's followers. You cannot help but love, respect and care for such animals!